## Link
[3.Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-substring-without-repeating-characters/description/) - medium
## Question
> Given a string `s`, find the length of the **longest** **substring** without duplicate characters.
> 
> **Example 1:**
>> **Input:** s = "abcabcbb" <br>
>> **Output:** 3 <br>
>> **Explanation:** The answer is "abc", with the length of 3. <br>
>
> **Example 2:**
>> **Input:** s = `"bbbbb"` <br>
>> **Output:** 1 <br>
>> **Explanation:** The answer is "b", with the length of 1. <br>
## Goal
- Find the length of the **longest substring** in a string `s` that contains no repeating characters.
## Logic
- Use the **sliding window technique** with a **hashmap** to track the last seen index of characters.
- Hashmap Purpose:
	I use a hashmap `char_index` where the key is the character and the value is its **last seen index** in the string. This allows me to quickly detect duplicates and know where they occurred.
- Window Control:
	- I use a sliding window represented by two pointers: `left` and `right`. The `right` pointer moves through the string, expanding the window.  
	- When I find a duplicate inside the current window (i.e., `char_index[s[right]] >= left`), I move `left` to `char_index[s[right]] + 1` to remove the duplicate and keep the window valid.
    
- Always Update the Map and max_len:
	- Regardless of whether a duplicate is found, I always update the character’s position in the map, and I update `max_len` as `right - left + 1`.
> [!note] 
> - Set `left = last_index + 1` to **skip over the repeated character**, while preserving other valid characters in the window.
> - Use the condition `char_index[s[right]] >= left` because **the repeated character might be exactly at `left`**, so we must move `left` forward to avoid duplication.
## Code
```python
from collections import defaultdict
class Solution:
    def lengthOfLongestSubstring(self, s: str) -> int:
        left = right = 0
        dic = defaultdict(int)
        max_win = 0
        while right < len(s):
            dic[s[right]] += 1
            
            while dic[s[right]] > 1:
                dic[s[left]] -= 1
                left += 1
            
            max_win = max(max_win, right - left + 1)

            right += 1
        
        return max_win
```
## Complexity analysis
- Time Complexity: O(n)
	- each character is processed at most twice — once by `right`, and once when `left` moves forward
- Space Complexity: O(n)
## Pre-knowledge
- fast and slow pointers
