## Link
[Next Greater Element I - LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/next-greater-element-i/description/) - easy, medium
## Question
> The **next greater element** of some element `x` in an array is the **first greater** element that is **to the right** of `x` in the same array.
> You are given two **distinct 0-indexed** integer arrays `nums1` and `nums2`, where `nums1` is a subset of `nums2`.
> For each `0 <= i < nums1.length`, find the index `j` such that `nums1[i] == nums2[j]` and determine the **next greater element** of `nums2[j]` in `nums2`. If there is no next greater element, then the answer for this query is `-1`. 
> Return _an array_ `ans` _of length_ `nums1.length` _such that_ `ans[i]` _is the **next greater element** as described above._
> 
>**Example 1:**
>> **Input:** nums1 = `[4,1,2]`, nums2 = `[1,3,4,2]`
>> **Output:** `[-1,3,-1]`
>> **Explanation:** The next greater element for each value of nums1 is as follows:
>> - 4 is underlined in nums2 = `[1,3,4,2]`. There is no next greater element, so the answer is -1.
>> - 1 is underlined in nums2 = `[1,3,4,2]`. The next greater element is 3.
>> - 2 is underlined in nums2 = `[1,3,4,2]`.

## Goal
- We are given two list. num1 is subset of num2.
- For each element in nums1, find its next greater element in nums2
- The next greater element is the first number to the right in nums2 that is greater than the current number.
## Logic
- **Monotonic decreasing order**
- I use a monotonic decreasing stack to process `nums2` from right to left. For each number, I remove smaller elements from the stack, since they can't be a next greater. The top of the stack (if it exists) is the next greater element. I map each number in `nums2` to its next greater, then look up values for `nums1`.
## Code
```python
class Solution:
    def nextGreaterElement(self, nums1: List[int], nums2: List[int]) -> List[int]:
        stack = []
        next_greater = {}

        for num in reversed(nums2):
            while stack and stack[-1] <= num:
                stack.pop()
            
            if stack:
                next_greater[num] = stack[-1]
            else:
                next_greater[num] = -1

            stack.append(num)
        
        return [next_greater[num] for num in nums1]
```

## Complexity analysis
- Time Complexity: O(n + m)
- Space Complexity: O(n)
## Pre-knowledge
- stakes
	- Monotonic decreasing stack: s a stack that always keeps its elements in **non-increasing order** from bottom to top.
		- When a **new number is smaller**, push it.
		- When a **new number is larger**, pop until the stack has only larger numbers.
