## Link
[Koko Eating Bananas - LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/koko-eating-bananas/) - medium
## Question
> Koko loves to eat bananas. There are `n` piles of bananas, the `ith` pile has `piles[i]` bananas. The guards have gone and will come back in `h` hours.
> Koko can decide her bananas-per-hour eating speed of `k`. Each hour, she chooses some pile of bananas and eats `k` bananas from that pile. If the pile has less than `k` bananas, she eats all of them instead and will not eat any more bananas during this hour.
> 
> Koko likes to eat slowly but still wants to finish eating all the bananas before the guards return.
> Return _the minimum integer_ `k` _such that she can eat all the bananas within_ `h` _hours_.
> 
> **Example 1:**
>> **Input:** piles = `[3,6,7,11]`, h = 8
>> **Output:** 4
> 
> **Example 2:**
>> **Input:** piles = `[30,11,23,4,20]`, h = 5
>> **Output:** 30

## Goal
The goal is to find the minimum integer eating speed `k` such that Koko can finish all the piles within `h` hours or less.
- We are given a list of banana piles, and an integer `h` representing the number of hours Koko has to finish all the bananas. Koko eats from one pile per hour ata a constant speed `k`, which is how many bananas she can eat in one hour. If a pile has fewer bananas than `k`, she just finishes the pile in that hour.
## Logic
The input size can be large, so we need an efficient solution. Trying all possible `k` values from 1 to max linearly would be too slow. That suggests using binary search on the speed `k`.

## Code
```python
class Solution:
    def minEatingSpeed(self, piles: List[int], h: int) -> int:
        left, right = 1, max(piles)
        res = 0

        while left <= right:
            mid = (left + right) // 2
            if self.can_finish(mid, piles, h):
                res = mid
                right = mid - 1
            else:
                left = mid + 1
        return res
    
    def can_finish(self, speed, piles, h):
        total_hours = 0
        for pile in piles:
                total_hours += math.ceil(pile / speed)
        return total_hours <= h
```

## Complexity analysis
- Time Complexity: $O(nlogM)$
	- M is the size of piles
- Space Complexity: O(1)
## Pre-knowledge
- binary search
